# Exeter Meeting Notes

June 24-28
Present HO, DM, MS, OS, SB, BK

- ZenHub - use instead of Trello, as it provides a powerful multi-project view
  of GitHub. 

- Reviewed and merged a bunch of outstanding PRs
  - esp. DS pair for Protobuf-over-ZMQ WFS-to-UIS comms 

- UI Design Session led by OS
  - refined our ideas based on OS excellent Inkscape mock-ups.
  - OS has now updated the design document and posted to the cylc-ui issue.

- MR provided instructions for his Cytoscape-based graph view experiments,
  which look very promising, and a PR to the UI project. Uses fossilized test
  data at this stage, but fine for demos. 

- UI: prioritize Tree View based on OS mock-ups. Dot-view is low priority.

- UIS-WFS authentication/trust - similar to CLI, e.g. one-time or timed token.

- need encryption between Hub and UIS (not the default in J-Hub).
  - high priority once we have the end-to-end system

- UIS to do all authorization if possible. It has to do some, e.g. for suite
  start-up, so might as well do it all.
  - so audit trail for all client interaction needed at the UIS

- User feedback request on Discourse
  - agreed we should do this
  - not wide spectrum of use cases - can't promise to please everyone
  - SB to write up for review before posting to Discourse.

- We will rely on J-Hub to be present, even for single-user installations

- UIS needs to abort (or prob just be useless) if not started/owned by the Hub.

- we may eventually need a native e-app (e.g. electron) for those without the
  right network routing.

- JupyterLab is a different/better notebook interface. Has a nice user-movable
  tiling tab feature that we should try to use. 

- Most tree view info should be retrieved on request only (e.g. Job ID etc. in
  the current tree view, not needed unless the final level is expanded in the
  new UI.

- "rose suite-run" - need plugin-based file-installation, e.g. via fcm keywords

- rose-suite.conf should be an importable Python file.

- UIS has to see source dir
  - need to see diffs of src vs run-dir
  - MS: could use git (whole suite, minus work tree etc.); tie commits to runs,
    restarts, reloads.

- Cylc 9:
  Python API gives modularity
  parameterizing sub-graphs 
  spawn-on-demand: avoids need for multi-dimensional cycling (just follow the
   graph, whether it is generated by cycles or parameters)

- Agreed new default installation dir structure:
```
    src ---> src/run1
                /run2
                /run3
```
  -  every cold-start creates a new run-dir by default
  - with symlink to src, so that cylc knows it is a template suite.
  - reload should show a diff of old vs new
  - in the UI gscan sidebar: collapse on src suite; select src for a new
    run; select run1 to stop suite etc.
  - housekeeping: select to delete runX
  - show latest runs and/or running suites by default
  - show out-of-date config (with respect to src)
  - only support editing the source suite via UI, at least initially
    - although separate run-dirs make run dir editing safer now
    - edit run-dir, save and reload
  - need to be able to validate and graph the src dir (unlike now)

- UI form for Jinja2 params
- Note need static graph vis too, in Cylc 8 (tell MR)

- TODO: can we "query the API" over GraphQL (UIS-WFS) so to allow multiple
  cylc-flow versions on the back end?

- OS agrees with DS PRs in large part; GraphQL schema looks good.
  - not convinced on protobuf yet (but see below)

- "stop suite" should report to user "waiting for active tasks to finish" (e.g.)

- GraphQL has typing too (like Protobuf); not sure  if validation/checking is done
  - BK wants types in the UI for safety/robustness

- FUTURE: display multiple suites together with inter-suite triggers!
  - great for small modular workflows

- DS PRs: push back functional and unit tests, and "granularise data
  structure", to follow-up devel.

- TODO: consider Travis CI cron jobs for cross-project integration testing.
  - use cylc/cylc-admin for this (T-CI config can pull from other projects)

- tests should run against master all the time, not release versions
  - need setup.py to install from branch URL not PyPi

- TODO (HO) - check JOSS paper repo link.

- SMS-like ghost nodes in all views? is a broken concept because it elevates
    "cycle points" to be more fundamental than they will be in Cylc 9 - some
    workflows might iterate over parameters first (or just wherever the graph leads).
   - we just need to educate users on the strengths of the cylc "adaptive
     window on an infinite graph" world view.
         
- What to display in the new UI:
   - first, as now, just display the task pool
   - then consider a new HYBRID MODE that looks a bit like spawn-on-demand will:
      - display N-edges out from "active tasks", in all views.
      - at start-up request N edges out, populate from suite and DB (only need to
        connect to DB at start-up)
      - "data display" technology if needed later (??Que??)
      - "level 0" is "active tasks" (submitted, running, satisfied, ... if
        prereqs are met OR "cannot be met")
      - allow configurable n-level zoom
      - max-n could be determined by query time on page
      - TODO ask DS: are n=1,2,3 edges already paged?
      - max tasks permitted per page?
   - UIS can query the DB to populate ghost nodes (and in future for "exploring
     the graph" beyond active tasks)
   - use distinct edge style to indicate that manual intervention forced
     override of prerequisite status.
   - failed tasks should need to be "dismissed" (not "removed"!)
   - show a separate list of failed tasks that have not been dismissed yet
   - failed tasks should not be treated differently to succeeded in terms of
     workflow
       - instead of keeping them around in the task pool should we have
          a different failure alerting system?
        - need to distinguish tasks that are expected to fail
           - FUTURE: generalise this to allow users to specify "expected
           completion state" of all tasks (default to expect success)
   - NOTE two kinds of ghost nodes!
      1) graph node with no corresponding task proxy currently in the pool
         (this kind will cease to exist in the spawn-on-demand future).
      2) "wrong graphing": intercycle dependence on an undefined task
    (What did we decide on terminology here???)

UI Session
- need themes (e.g. color-blind) at 8.0.0
  - store in Hub?
  - store on disk?
  - store in cookies?  (not browser-portable)
  - preferred option: hub preferences service (Hub Sqlite)

- gscan sidebar: 
  - filtering
  - collapse hierarchy: just combine all suite badges/icons to get the group status summary 
  - collapse/expand state should be a preference
  - don't persist current preference; revert to stored is better
  - select two suites: see two suites in same tree view!
    - future graph view: with inter-suite triggers

- keep preview view alive (data feed), e.g. for 20 secs, in case user returns to it.

- UI data feed needs to be flat list of nodes (proxies and ghosts); edges;
  family structure, so data model can be shared by all views.
  - graph view = tree view + edges

- note the tree view should support a "flat list" (no family info) mode, like current GUI.

- Graph view (MR): needs to use same task and job icons etc. as other views.

- DS: can we request the "active view" and abstract this out (in hybrid mode
  this will be active tasks + level 1 etc.); later swap in the spawn-on-demand
  selected graph window.

- for now, each node could have a flag to say "I'm not a ghost node"? (there is
  a task proxy behind me).

- GLOSSARY
  - needed!
  - e.g. WFS = "workflow server"  (DM prefers "server" to "service")

- OS will do a UI design doc; SB will link to it in the Discourse UI feedback post

- UIS may need to query the user's group (from the OS).

- Firefox F12 (or Ctrl-Shift-M) device sim mode (mobile etc.) ... Cylc UI on
  smart watch, he heh.

- DM: found non-root J-Hub pretty straightforward to set up.
- Note we need to be able to start UIS as other users (I want to look at other
  user who does not have a UIS at the moment).

- UIS could have a query to list other users that I am authorized to see?
  - (If Hub-level auth for this is not feasible)

- TODO immediately after first e2e system:
   default authorization should be owner-only.

Job to UIS/WFS authentication/trust:

- one-time or timed token
- trust the OS/FS
- same for encryption (use the same token)
- don't transport the token, stays on disk (except for remote jobs - need to
  install on remote host, one-time token best for this)
- event-driven expiry is probably the way to go (e.g. expire when job finished)

Interactive CLI needs a timed token (on hosts with shared FS)
Remote jobs- timed or one-off  

Cylc Workshop 2019/2020
- funding agreed by UMPB
- prob Dec 2019 or Jan 2020
- location?  Maybe Singapore?
- Need decent IT and WiFi!

GraphQL:
- note graphene (Python client/server) is much less powerful than Apollo (JS)
- request for "hold all of my suites": "workflows/*, status=held"
- (what about: hold all tasks submitting to host X?)

Protobuf discussion (as implemented by DS already):
- decision: Protobuf is fine for the current model where UIS is *mirroring* all
  data in the "active view" of WFS.  GraphQL backend potentially better *if* in
 future we can make the UIS merely a transparent conduit for exactly what
subset of the data that the UI requests.
- still need protobuf feed somewhat granularized to level of nodes and edges,
  so UIS doesn't store edges if no one is looking at the graph view.
- Ask DS not to granularize further than this, if not strictly needed.

Future:
- WFS populate in memory DB (redis etc.) ... then UIS can just query the DB?

UI auto-hiding of side-bar - flex box
- (HO: note this is already working with BK's UI - tested!)

TODO - how to get command results back?

Note UK summer hols: 24 July - 5 Sept, ish.

Default access to UIS "cylc review" read only

Cylc-8 release schedule?
- Cylc-8.0.0 first release candidate for researchers
- OR fully production-ready?
- need a series of beta releases first

Need to investigage Discourse email digest settings (are users getting
notifications if not checking the web site?)

